[documentation] Add a section about preconditioners (#609)
JuliaSmoothOptimizers/Krylov.jl: docs/src/preconditioners.md

# [Preconditioners](@id preconditioners)

> The solvers in Krylov.jl support preconditioners, i.e., transformations that modify a linear systems $Ax = b$ into an equivalent form that may yield faster convergence in finite-precision arithmetic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solvers in Krylov.jl support preconditioners, i.e., transformations that modify a linear system $Ax = b$ into an equivalent form that may yield faster convergence in finite-precision arithmetic.
```

# [Preconditioners](@id preconditioners)

The solvers in Krylov.jl support preconditioners, i.e., transformations that modify a linear systems $Ax = b$ into an equivalent form that may yield faster convergence in finite-precision arithmetic.

> Preconditioning can be used to reduce the condition number of the problem or clusterize its eigenvalues for instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Preconditioning can be used to reduce the condition number of the problem or cluster its eigenvalues or singular values for instance.
```

> The design of preconditioners is highly dependent on the origin of the problem and most preconditioners need to take application dependent information and structures into account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The design of preconditioners is highly dependent on the origin of the problem and most preconditioners need to take application-dependent information and structure into account.
```

Specialized preconditioners generally outperform generic preconditioners such as incomplete factorizations.

> The construction of a preconditioner also necessitates a trade-off because we need to apply it at least once per iteration within a Krylov method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The construction of a preconditioner necessitates trade-offs because we need to apply it at least once per iteration within a Krylov method.
```

Hence, a preconditioner must be constructed such that it is cheap to apply, while also capturing the characteristics of the original system in some sense.

There exist three variants of preconditioning:

| Left preconditioning               | Two-sided preconditioning                                              | Right preconditioning                        |
|:----------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------:|:--------------------------------------------:|
| $P_{\ell}^{-1}Ax = P_{\ell}^{-1}b$ | $P_{\ell}^{-1}AP_r^{-1}y = P_{\ell}^{-1}b~~\text{with}~~x = P_r^{-1}y$ | $AP_r^{-1}y = b~~\text{with}~~x = P_r^{-1}y$ |

where $P_{\ell}$ and $P_r$ are square and nonsingular.

> We consider that $P_{\ell}^{-1}$ and $P_r^{-1}$ are the default preconditioners in Krylov.jl and that we can apply them with the operation $y \leftarrow P^{-1} * x$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Krylov.jl , we call $P_{\ell}^{-1}$ and $P_r^{-1}$ the preconditioners and we assume that we can apply them with the operation $y \leftarrow P^{-1} * x$.
```

It is also common to call $P_{\ell}$ and $P_r$ the preconditioners if the equivalent operation $y \leftarrow P~\backslash~x$ is available.

> Krylov.jl supports both approach thanks to the argument `ldiv` of the Krylov solvers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Krylov.jl supports both approaches thanks to the argument `ldiv` of the Krylov solvers.
```

## How to use preconditioners in Krylov.jl?

!!! tip

>     A preconditioner only needs to support the operation `mul!(y, P⁻¹, x)` when `ldiv=false` or `ldiv!(y, P, x)` when `ldiv=true` to be used in Krylov.jl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    A preconditioner only need support the operation `mul!(y, P⁻¹, x)` when `ldiv=false` or `ldiv!(y, P, x)` when `ldiv=true` to be used in Krylov.jl.
```

### Square non-Hermitian linear systems

Methods concerned: [`CGS`](@ref cgs), [`BiCGSTAB`](@ref bicgstab), [`DQGMRES`](@ref dqgmres), [`GMRES`](@ref gmres), [`DIOM`](@ref diom) and [`FOM`](@ref fom).

A Krylov method dedicated to non-Hermitian linear systems allows the three variants of preconditioning.

| Preconditioners | $P_{\ell}^{-1}$       | $P_{\ell}$           | $P_r^{-1}$            | $P_r$                |
|:---------------:|:---------------------:|:--------------------:|:---------------------:|:--------------------:|
| Arguments       | `M` with `ldiv=false` | `M` with `ldiv=true` | `N` with `ldiv=false` | `N` with `ldiv=true` |

### Hermitian linear systems

Methods concerned: [`SYMMLQ`](@ref symmlq), [`CG`](@ref cg), [`CG-LANCZOS`](@ref cg_lanczos), [`CG-LANCZOS-SHIFT`](@ref cg_lanczos_shift), [`CR`](@ref cr), [`MINRES`](@ref minres) and [`MINRES-QLP`](@ref minres_qlp).

> When $A$ is Hermitian, we can only use the centered preconditioning $L^{-1}AL^{-T}y = L^{-1}b$ with $x = L^{-T}y$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When $A$ is Hermitian, we can only use centered preconditioning $L^{-1}AL^{-T}y = L^{-1}b$ with $x = L^{-T}y$.
```

> This split preconditioning is a special case of two-sided preconditioning $P_{\ell} = L = P_r^T$ that maintains the hermicity of the linear systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Centered preconditioning is a special case of two-sided preconditionin with $P_{\ell} = L = P_r^T$ that maintains hermicity.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there is no need to specify $L$ and one may specify $M$ directly.

```

| Preconditioners | $P^{-1} = L^{-T}L^{-1}$ | $P = LL^{T}$         |
|:---------------:|:-----------------------:|:--------------------:|
| Arguments       | `M` with `ldiv=false`   | `M` with `ldiv=true` |

!!! warning
    The preconditioner `M` must be hermitian and positive definite.

### Linear least-squares problems

Methods concerned: [`CGLS`](@ref cgls), [`CRLS`](@ref crls), [`LSLQ`](@ref lslq), [`LSQR`](@ref lsqr) and [`LSMR`](@ref lsmr).

| Formulation           | Without preconditioning | With preconditioning           |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------:|:------------------------------:|

> | least-squares problem | $\min \\|b - Ax\\|^2_2$ | $\min \\|b - Ax\\|^2_{E^{-1}}$ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| least-squares problem | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|b - Ax\\|^2_2$ | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|b - Ax\\|^2_{E^{-1}}$ |
```

| Normal equation       | $A^TAx = A^Tb$          | $A^TE^{-1}Ax = A^TE^{-1}b$     |
| Augmented system      | $\begin{bmatrix} I & A \\ A^T & 0 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} r \\ x \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$ | $\begin{bmatrix} E & A \\ A^T & 0 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} r \\ x \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$ |

[`LSLQ`](@ref lslq), [`LSQR`](@ref lsqr) and [`LSMR`](@ref lsmr) also handle regularized least-squares problems.

| Formulation           | Without preconditioning                         | With preconditioning                                   |
|:---------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------:|

> | least-squares problem | $\min \\|b - Ax\\|^2_2 + \lambda^2 \\|x\\|^2_2$ | $\min \\|b - Ax\\|^2_{E^{-1}} + \lambda^2 \\|x\\|^2_F$ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| least-squares problem | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|b - Ax\\|^2_2 + \\tfrac{1}{2} \lambda^2 \\|x\\|^2_2$ | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|b - Ax\\|^2_{E^{-1}} + \\tfrac{1}{2} \lambda^2 \\|x\\|^2_F$ |
```

| Augmented system      | $\begin{bmatrix} I & A \\ A^T & -\lambda^2 I \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} r \\ x \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$ | $\begin{bmatrix} E & A \\ A^T & -\lambda^2 F \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} r \\ x \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ 0 \end{bmatrix}$ |

| Preconditioners | $E^{-1}$                | $E$                  | $F^{-1}$                | $F$                  |
|:---------------:|:-----------------------:|:--------------------:|:-----------------------:|:--------------------:|
| Arguments       | `M` with `ldiv=false`   | `M` with `ldiv=true` | `N` with `ldiv=false`   | `N` with `ldiv=true` |

!!! warning
    The preconditioners `M` and `N` must be hermitian and positive definite.

### Linear least-norm problems

Methods concerned: [`CGNE`](@ref cgne), [`CRMR`](@ref crmr), [`LNLQ`](@ref lnlq), [`CRAIG`](@ref craig) and [`CRAIGMR`](@ref craigmr).

| Formulation          | Without preconditioning                 | With preconditioning                           |
|:--------------------:|:---------------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------:|

> | minimum-norm problem | $\min \\|x\\|^2_2~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax = b$ | $\min \\|x\\|^2_F~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax = b$ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| minimum-norm problem | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|x\\|^2_2~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax = b$ | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|x\\|^2_F~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax = b$ |
```

| Normal equation      | $AA^Ty = b~~\text{with}~~x = A^Ty$      | $AF^{-1}A^Ty = b~~\text{with}~~x = F^{-1}A^Ty$           |
| Augmented system     | $\begin{bmatrix} -I & A^T \\ \phantom{-}A & 0 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ b \end{bmatrix}$ | $\begin{bmatrix} -F & A^T \\ \phantom{-}A & 0 \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ b \end{bmatrix}$ |

[`LNLQ`](@ref lslq), [`CRAIG`](@ref lsqr) and [`CRAIGMR`](@ref lsmr) also handle penalized minimum-norm problems.

| Formulation          | Without preconditioning                                             | With preconditioning                                                                    |
|:--------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|

> | minimum-norm problem | $\min \\|x\\|^2_2 + \\|y\\|^2_2~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax + \lambda^2 y = b$ | $\min \\|x\\|^2_F + \\|y\\|^2_E~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax + \lambda^2 Ey = b$ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| minimum-norm problem | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|x\\|^2_2 + \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|y\\|^2_2~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax + \lambda^2 y = b$ | $\min \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|x\\|^2_F + \\tfrac{1}{2} \\|y\\|^2_E~~\text{s.t.}~~Ax + \lambda^2 Ey = b$ |
```

| Normal equation      | $(AA^T + \lambda^2 I)y = b~~\text{with}~~x = A^Ty$                  | $(AF^{-1}A^T + \lambda^2 E)y = b~~\text{with}~~x = F^{-1}A^Ty$                               |
| Augmented system     | $\begin{bmatrix} -I & A^T \\ \phantom{-}A & \lambda^2 I \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ b \end{bmatrix}$ | $\begin{bmatrix} -F & A^T \\ \phantom{-}A & \lambda^2 E \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} 0 \\ b \end{bmatrix}$ |

| Preconditioners | $E^{-1}$                | $E$                  | $F^{-1}$                | $F$                  |
|:---------------:|:-----------------------:|:--------------------:|:-----------------------:|:--------------------:|
| Arguments       | `M` with `ldiv=false`   | `M` with `ldiv=true` | `N` with `ldiv=false`   | `N` with `ldiv=true` |

!!! warning
    The preconditioners `M` and `N` must be hermitian and positive definite.

### Saddle-point and symmetric quasi-definite systems

> When a Hermitian system $Kz = d$ has the 2x2 block structure
> ```math
>   \begin{bmatrix} \tau E & \phantom{-}A \\ A^T & \nu F \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ c \end{bmatrix},
> ```
> where $E$ and $F$ are Hermitian and positive definite, [`TriCG`](@ref tricg) and [`TriMR`](@ref trimr) can take advantage of this form if preconditioners `M` and `N` that model the inverse of $E$ and $F$ are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`TriCG`](@ref tricg) and [`TriMR`](@ref trimr) can take advantage of the structure of Hermitian systems $Kz = d$ with the 2x2 block structure
```math
  \begin{bmatrix} \tau E & \phantom{-}A \\ A^T & \nu F \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ c \end{bmatrix},
```
where $E$ and $F$ are Hermitian and positive definite, if preconditioners `M` and `N` that model the inverse of $E$ and $F$ are available.
```

| Preconditioners | $E^{-1}$              | $E$                  | $F^{-1}$              | $F$                  |
|:---------------:|:---------------------:|:--------------------:|:---------------------:|:--------------------:|
| Arguments       | `M` with `ldiv=false` | `M` with `ldiv=true` | `N` with `ldiv=false` | `N` with `ldiv=true` |

!!! warning
    The preconditioners `M` and `N` must be hermitian and positive definite.

### Generalized saddle-point and unsymmetric partitioned systems

> When an non-Hermitian system $Kz = d$ has the 2x2 block structure
> ```math
>   \begin{bmatrix} \lambda M & A \\ B & \mu N \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ c \end{bmatrix},
> ```
> [`GPMR`](@ref gpmr) can take advantage of this structure if we model the inverse of $M$ and $N$ with the help of preconditioners `C`, `D`, `E` and `F`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`GPMR`](@ref gpmr) can take advantage of the structure of general square systems $Kz = d$ with the 2x2 block structure
```math
  \begin{bmatrix} \lambda M & A \\ B & \mu N \end{bmatrix} \begin{bmatrix} x \\ y \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} b \\ c \end{bmatrix},
```
if we model the inverse of $M$ and $N$ with the help of preconditioners `C`, `D`, `E` and `F`.
```

| Relations       | $CE = M^{-1}$                 | $EC = M$                     | $DF = N^{-1}$                 | $FD = N$                     |
|:---------------:|:-----------------------------:|:----------------------------:|:-----------------------------:|:----------------------------:|
| Arguments       | `C` and `E` with `ldiv=false` | `C` and `E` with `ldiv=true` | `D` and `F` with `ldiv=false` | `D` and `F` with `ldiv=true` |

!!! note
    Our implementations of [`BiLQ`](@ref bilq), [`QMR`](@ref qmr), [`BiLQR`](@ref bilqr), [`USYMLQ`](@ref usymlq), [`USYMQR`](@ref usymqr) and [`TriLQR`](@ref trilqr) don't support preconditioning.

!!! info

>     The default value of a preconditioner in Krylov.jl is the identity operator `I`.

Reviewer: This should appear at the top.

## Packages that provide preconditioners

> - [IncompleteLU.jl](https://github.com/haampie/IncompleteLU.jl) implements the left-looking or Crout version of ILU decompositions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [IncompleteLU.jl](https://github.com/haampie/IncompleteLU.jl) implements the left-looking and Crout versions of ILU decompositions.
```

> - [ILUZero.jl](https://github.com/mcovalt/ILUZero.jl)  is a Julia implementation of incomplete LU factorization with zero level of fill-in. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ILUZero.jl](https://github.com/mcovalt/ILUZero.jl) is a Julia implementation of incomplete LU factorization with zero level of fill-in. 
```

## [Preconditioners](@id preconditioners)

> The solvers in Krylov.jl support preconditioners that modify a given linear systems $Ax = b$ into a form that allows a faster convergence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The solvers in Krylov.jl support preconditioners, i.e., transformations that modify a linear systems $Ax = b$ into an equivalent form that may yield faster convergence in finite-precision arithmetic.
```

> It exists three variants of preconditioning:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There exist three variants of preconditioning:
```

> | Left preconditioning | Two-sided preconditioning       | Right preconditioning          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Left preconditioning | Split preconditioning           | Right preconditioning          |
```

Author: Split preconditioning means that M = L = N', no?
It's equivalent to centered preconditioning for me while two-sided preconditioning is more generic.

|:--------------------:|:-------------------------------:|:------------------------------:|
| $MAx = Mb$           | $MANy = Mb~~\text{with}~~x = Ny$| $ANy = b~~\text{with}~~x = Ny$ |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

where $M$ and $N$ are square and nonsingular.
```

> #### Unsymmetric linear systems

Reviewer: Are you including underdetermined consistent systems here? If not, then indicate "square unsymmetric systems".

Reviewer: Also, should we say "non-Hermitian" instead of "unsymmetric"?

> A Krylov method dedicated to unsymmetric systems allows the three variants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Methods concerned: [`CGS`](@ref cgs), [`BiCGSTAB`](@ref bicgstab), [`DQGMRES`](@ref dqgmres), [`GMRES`](@ref gmres), [`DIOM`](@ref diom) and [`FOM`](@ref fom).

A Krylov method dedicated to unsymmetric systems allows the three variants.
```

> We provide these preconditioners with the arguments `M` and `N`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our implementations, those preconditioners are specified via the arguments `M` and `N`.
```

It concerns the methods [`CGS`](@ref cgs), [`BiCGSTAB`](@ref bicgstab), [`DQGMRES`](@ref dqgmres), [`GMRES`](@ref gmres), [`DIOM`](@ref diom) and [`FOM`](@ref fom).

> #### Symmetric linear systems

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Hermitian linear systems
```

> When $A$ is symmetric, we can only use the centered / split preconditioning $LAL^Tx = Lb$.

Reviewer: If we want to preserve symmetry / hermicity.
